# Kickoff

Kick start the development of a website or web application.

## Getting Started

Either clone this repo, or utilise the bash alias detailed below. 

If you plan on using any of the preconfigured Gulp tasks, make sure you run `npm install` (and possibly `bower install` if neccessary) first - this will pull in any required dependencies.

That's it! You're good to go.

## Alias

To conveniently use this repo, we recommend adding the following alias to your prompt:

```
function kickoff() {
    echo "Cloning Kickoff repository..."
    git clone git@bitbucket.org:club/kickoff.git .
    echo "Removing .git directory..."
    rm .git -r -f
    echo "Done. Happy coding!"
}
```
When you start a new project, just open a terminal window, type `kickoff` and hit return and the alias will pull in this repository to the current directory and then remove the repos `.git` folder, allowing you to immediately initialise a new Git repository for your project without any faff.

## Assets

The `/assets` directory provides a predefined directory structure that should be suitable for the vast majority of websites and applications.

By default, `/assets` includes the following directories:

* **/img**

  All images used within stylesheets are to to placed here. They will automatically be optimised and moved to `public/img` by the `imagemin` Gulp task.

* **/js**

  Javascript goes here. The Gulp task `uglify` will concatenate and minify these files in accordance with the task settings within `gulpfile.js`.

* **/sass**
  * **/base**

    `_base.scss` - None layout, theme specific styles go here.

  * **/config**

    `_base.scss` - A default location for defining any variables for use throughout the project.

  * **/components**

    Styles for individual site elements that are used to build up pages should be placed here.

  * **/helpers**

    Mixins and functions should be placed here. By default blank `_mixins.scss` and `_functions.scss` files are included for convenience.
    
  * **/layout**
  
  	The home for any major structural styles, such as headers and footers.

  * **/vendor**

    This would generally contain any vendor styles that need to manually be included, because they're not available via Bower or NPM.

  * **main.scss**

    The project's core stylesheet. Each file from the sub-folders should be included within this file. Placing CSS in this file is not recommended.

## Public

The web root of the application, complete with sample `index.html` file.

The following meta files are also included for convenience:

**Meta Image Files**

* `apple-touch-icon.png`
* `tile-wide.png`
* `tile.png`

**Meta files**

* `browserconfig.xml`
* `crossdomain.xml`
* `robots.txt`

## Metafiles

### .bowerrc

Ensures that your bower dependencies are organised nicely in the `vendor` directory, along with any Composer dependencies.

### .babelrc
Configuration file for [BabelJS](https://babeljs.io).
### .eslintrc
Configuration file for [ESLint](http://eslint.org).


### .gitattributes

Settings to normalise line endings within the Git repository.

### .gitignore

Project specific files and folders to be ignored. The contents of this file is minimal because the majority of standard ignores should be set within a global .gitignore file.

If there isn't a global `.gitignore` file setup, here are some example additional entries for this file:

```
# OS Files
.DS_Store
.DS_Store?
Thumbs.db

# Web
.env
```

### .jscsrc
Configuration file for [JSCS](http://jscs.info/overview).

### .sass-lint.yml
Configuration file for sass-lint.

### bower.json

Defines any Bower dependencies. jQuery and HTML5shiv are included by default.

### composer.json

Configuration file for the PHP-based package manager [Composer](https://getcomposer.org). This file describes the dependencies of your project and may contain other metadata as well.

### gulpfile.js

Responsible for building the site assets ready for deployment.

#### Preconfigured Gulp Tasks:

##### clean ([gulp-clean](https://github.com/peter-vilja/gulp-clean))
This task will delete any previously built assets from the build directories specified in the `project.json` file.

##### copy-components

Copies folders and files as defined in the `components` object in `project.json`.

##### sass ([gulp-sass](https://github.com/dlmanning/gulp-sass))

Compiles SASS/SCSS from the SASS source directory to CSS in the configured destination directory.

Output CSS will be auto-prefixed and source maps will be generated by default. 

##### autoprefix ([gulp-autoprefixer](https://github.com/sindresorhus/gulp-autoprefixer))

Automatically adds vendor prefixes to compiled CSS. Browser support can be configured in `project.json`.

##### minify-css ([gulp-clean-css](https://github.com/scniro/gulp-clean-css))
Minifies CSS.

##### uglify ([gulp-uglify](https://github.com/terinjokes/gulp-uglify))

Minifies source JavaScript with UglifyJS. JS is piped through Babel to allow authoring in ES2015/ES6.

##### imagemin ([gulp-imagemin](https://github.com/sindresorhus/gulp-imagemin))

Minifies images within the image path defined in `project.json` and saves them in the configured destination directory.

##### rev

Appends a hash to the filenames of your assets if they're updated. The updated filenames are stored in a manifest file that maps file names to their revved versions.

Asset URLs within your compiled CSS will be updated to their revved versions automatically.

This task is generally more useful during a production build step. Extremely useful if you want to add far futures expires headers to your static assets. 

Further reading: [Yahoo performance rules](https://developer.yahoo.com/performance/rules.html#expires).

##### watch ([gulp-watch](https://github.com/floatdrop/gulp-watch))

Runs Gulp tasks when certain files are added, changed or deleted.

By default the watch task is configured to run the following tasks:

Watched Files                                 | Task
--------------------------------------------- | ------------
`resources/assets/js/**/*.js`                 | uglify
`resources/assets/sass/**/*.{scss,sass)`      | sass
`resources/assets/img/**/*.{png,jpg,gif,svg}` | imagemin
`public/css/**/*.css`                         | autoprefixer

### package.json

Defines the dependencies required by Gulp for the tasks outlined above.

### project.json

Configuration file for Gulp tasks